- [Instructor] In this lesson, we'll talk about
the importance of writing a great commit message,
and how they benefit your team.
Well-crafted commit messages are the best way
to communicate why the commit was necessary,
giving some context to the code changes.
Commit messages are also very handy when
looking over recent changes to the code base.
Commit messages can give you a quick idea
of what has changed recently.
Let's walk through a demonstration that will show you
how to write a great commit message.
When writing commit messages, developers often use
the dash M flag to specify the commit message,
using the command line.
Unfortunately, this normally leads to
a poor commit message.
In fact, we've been doing it quite a bit
throughout the course, but it's only for examples
to save us some time.
When working with a real code base,
you need a better tool for the job.
To write a great commit message, we should use
a text editor instead of the command line.
Let's walk through how to configure in editor.
To set up the editor, we use the git config command,
and we can specify this setting as a global setting
that will apply across our Git installation.
We then use the core editor configuration property,
and it accepts the path to our favorite text editor.
In this case, I'm going to be using Gedit on Ubuntu.
Once I set the core dot editor property,
I can then go ahead and issue the commit
without the dash M flag.
This will cause the editor to open
and then I can go ahead within the editor
and specify the commit message.
Now, we'll write a more robust commit
a little bit later.
But I'm just trying to show you that you write the message
within the editor, then go ahead and save the changes,
and then close the editor.
And you'll notice that Git uses the message crafted
within the editor for your commit message.
Now that we have the tool configured,
let's set up a standard message template
so that we can draft commit messages
that are uniform and more robust.
To set up our commit message template,
we once again use the git config command,
and we specify the value for
the commit template property.
Once again, we need to specify a path
to a message template.
Let's take a look at the message template
we'll be using.
This is the template.
It starts out with a subject line that's roughly
50 characters, and then we have several paragraphs
that will describe our commit,
and why it was created.
We can use things like bullets within this template.
And another good idea is to specify the work items
that this message will resolve.
So, having this template handy can be a reminder
of how to structure our commit messages.
So, that template is located at
forward slash home forward slash course
on the desktop within a repose directory I've created.
And it's named gitmessage.txt.
Now, this file is provided within the working files
for the course, so you'll have to place it
on your file system and then reference it
within this command.
Let's now go ahead and add more changes,
and then we will add those changes to the stage.
And then, at this point, I'm going to go ahead and commit.
There we see our message template.
And what I'm going to do is just remove
several of these comments
so that we can show the structure
of what our commit message will look like.
Since we haven't really made a change,
it's not as important that we provide
some real content here.
Developers would be able to reference
this template, though, when drafting their commit,
and it's a good reminder for them of how
the team structures them.
So here you can see that we have prepped
our commit message.
And, once again, with the editor, we just save
and then close.
Okay, so let's go ahead and make this commit.
You'll notice that when the editor opens,
we will have our message template to reference.
We can reference the template as a guide
for how to structure our commit message.
So we know that this is the line
where the subject goes,
at roughly 50 characters.
Then we would add some paragraphs here.
And I'm just going to copy that
to add a little bit more content.
Okay.
And then maybe we wanna put some bullets.
And then, finally, we can say it resolves work items,
let's say one, two, and three.
Okay, so there's how we can structure
our commit message referencing the template.
Let's go ahead and save the message.
And then go ahead and we will close the editor.
And you'll now see that our commit
has been saved with the more robust message.
Now here's the nice thing.
Once we use the log command,
you can really see the benefit of structuring
our commit messages.
It's much easier to read this structured message
and each of our commits is going to have
that same structure.
This conveys more information to somebody
perusing the code base.
Using the configured editor and message template,
you're now set-up to write better commits with Git.